The client side via collective.zopeedit on Ubuntu (and probably any other
recent Linux distro) is pretty much fucked in Chromium unless you a) set
editor=something.  Why, you ask?

Chromium delegates to the operating system to choose which application to open
when a file cannot be handled by the browser itself, and is downloaded as a
result.  The fun part: the mimetype provided by in the response from the server
is simply thrown away when Chromium figures out it can't handle the mimetype
all by itself, and that it needs to punt to the OS.  It's not even set as an
extended attribute of the downloaded file.  It's just gone.

After downloading the file and throwing the mimetype away, Chromium punts to
the operating system to figure out which application should be used to open the
downloaded file.  Which means the "xdg-open" program.  xdg-open uses the
"Shared Mime Info" specification
(http://standards.freedesktop.org/shared-mime-info-spec/shared-mime-info-spec-latest.html)
to choose which application to open given a file.  xdg-open cannot be given a
hint about the file's mimetype because clearly that would make life far too
easy.  And Chromium *does not* set the ``user.mime_type`` attribute on the
downloaded file (not that it would matter, because the version of xdg-open on
Ubuntu 12.04 doesn't take it into account anyway, even though the spec says it
should).  Instead, it only takes a filename or a URL as a single argument, and
then attempts to divine the mimetype from that argument.  xdg-open on Ubuntu
(really gvfs-open, because xdg-open is just a wrapper around it) will first
consult the mime database using the file extension of the file.  If a mimetype
is associated with the extension, it's game over.  In practice, this means that
if the downloaded file extension is ``.txt``, gedit is going to be used to open
the file, fucking full stop.  Game over, glad you played.

However, we don't *want* gedit to be used to open the file, we want zopeedit to
be used to open the file.  This means that we have to manufacture a phony
extension that isn't associated with any mimetype in the shared mime database,
so that the *magic* computation of the shared mimeinfo database will begin to
come into play or we need to tack on an extension that is known to be
associated with zopeedit.  Once the magic computation comes into play or the
extension is ``.zem`` "application/x-zope-edit" will always be found as the
mimetype due to the magic/glob rules in the "zopeedit.xml" file.  Good enough.

So assume we've decided to use ``.zem`` as an extension to every downloaded
file that is destined for zopeedit.  We're able to download the file as a
``.zem`` file and zopeedit gets launched.  However, collective.zopeedit will
copy the file to a tempfile using its original filename (which ends with .zem),
and if ``editor`` is not set *it* wants to use gvfs-open to figure out which
application to use to open the file.  And since the filename ends in ``.zem``
it chooses zopeedit, which ends in a total clusterfuck.

So we can't do that.  Instead we have to tack on a completely phony extension
that is not associated with any mimetype.

In practice, this means, on Ubuntu, in Chromium, we e have to tack on a
.zopeedit extension to the downloaded filename by using content-disposition in
the server-side source code.  This extension isn't actually associated with any
mimetype.  It's just there so gvs-open has to use its magic database to open
the file.

There are similar fuckages using Firefox, although I believe Firefox has some
sort of way of associating a mimetype with an external program, so it may
behave slightly better.  In particular, I think when it downloads a file of a
particular mimetype that it doesn't yet know about, it asks you which program
to use to open the file instead of just downloading it and letting the OS take
over.

Windows and MacOS are completely different animals.  No idea.

You might think an option would be to cause the client to accept a *URL*
instead of a filename.  The URL can have a custom scheme
(e.g. ``zopeedit://localhost:6543/foo/bar.txt``).  Then we can associate the
scheme with an application, which will be fed the URL.  But this has problems
too because the program that is fed the URL wont have the proper credentials to
download the file.

Another option would be to change collective.zopeedit to munge the filename it
uses to create a copy of the downloaded file in a temp location to get rid of
/edit.zem or at least tack on the original extension of the downloaded file.
But this means we have to fork the client.

The last remaining fuckage: when xdg-open is used by zopeedit to figure out
which editor to launch (instead of editor= being assigned manually), it finds
one and launches it ok, but the zopeedit process usually loses track of the
editor and assumes it has closed, because most programs like gedit spawn a
small process which feeds a new file to an already-open program (e.g. something
like emacsclient).  So in practice, setting ``editor`` to a static value is the
only practical thing to do, at least on Ubuntu.

